# 1. IPv4 Revision & Forwarding
---
## Summary:
- Address Aggregation
- Packet processing
- Forwarding table
- ARP & helper protocols


### Terminology
- IP packets = Datagrams
- End stations = Host

### Basic IP service (Best Effort): Datagram Delivery
Connectionless, Unacked, Unreliable, Unordered.

### IP Address Reperesentation:
265.265.265.265  
\<network-ID> \<Host-ID> (specified by netmask)

### Address Aggregation
A big problem is the size of the routing/forwarding tables so to reduce the size; suppose G is the border router which has 4 internal networks. G summarizes the 4 networks and only announces 1; outside routers only need 1 address table instead of 4. A packet from outside destined for an internal network inside G only needs to go to G and G will know how to forward it internally.

> Reserved IP Address Blocks: Textbook Page 15.

### Simplified Packet Processing
**If** packet is not destined to router & packet forwarding not enabled then packet is dropped.

**Else** 
-  Check if packet is destined to a directly reachable station (on same ethernet) and delivery packet if yes; then stop processing. Otherwise, consult forwarding table for next hop and outgoing interface. 
-  Decrement TTL; drop packet if 0
-  recompute packet HDR checksum (see if corrupted)
-  Hand packet over to outgoing interface

>  **Forwarding Table** maintained by a routing daemon a process executing a routing protocol. 
>> Linux Commants for forwarding table:  
>> - netstat
>> - ip route

## Forwarding Table
Each entry contains:  
- Dest IP prefix  
- Info about next hop (IP addy of next hop must be directly reachable or interface toward it point to point links)  
- Flags; whether next hope is router or directly attached net
- specification of outgoing interface

### Forwarding
From fw table its clear that the router doesn't know the full path only the next hop.  

Forwarding table lookup for packet with dest IP add `dst` - w/ aggregation works as follows:  
- find all fwd table entries w/ prefix a.b.c.d/k which match dst address
- If no entry found; drop packet
- if > 1 entry found use most specific one w/ largest netmask & send pkt to indicated next hop or outg interface.
- if dst add 0.0.0.0/0 => Default route
- **Individual host** entry if full IP address and /32 netmask (rare)  
- Most end hosts leverage default route mechanism
    - end host can differentiate betw pkts to local dest
    - pkts to local dest are delivered directly
    - pkts to all other dest are sent to default router  
So forwarding tables in end hosts need few entries  
- One for each local netw the host is attached to 
- default route & router handling it
**Default router must be configured (DHCP)**

# IP Helper Protocols

### ARP - Address Resolution Protocol
- IP addys only have a meaning to IP and higher levels
- In **Ethernet** stations own 48 bit MAC addys  

**ARP** provides a binding service; determines MAC address for given IP address

**Dynamic** MAC for a given IP doesnt need to be static; ARP provides a mechanism to determine it on the fly. But a separate protocol is needed bringing additional complexity and bandwidth

**RARP** reverse arp lets stations find an IP Ad for a given MAC ad.

**Basic Operation**: 
1. Station A broadc ARP req showing A's own IP & MAC ad && B's IP ad
2. Any host C having an IP ad other than 130.149.49.22 drops req packet
3. B recv req w/ IP 130.149.49.22 performs actions:
    - Stores binding betw A's IP and MAC ad in ARP cache
    - Sends ARP repky w/ B's MAC & IP ad && A's MAC and IP ad
    ARP reply is unicast to A's Mac ad (not broad to save)
- Entries in ARP cache removed 20 mins after creation. users come and go so table needs to be updated.

**Linux Inspect ARP cache:** `ip n`

